Now our next challenge is to count the number of vowels, consonants and number of words in a string.
So here I have an example string.
A string is containing lowercase with wobbles as well as uppercase.
So also the few letters are uppercase and the spaces are also there.
So total three words are here and I have not taken any special characters or numbers in this one.
Now let us solve this problem.
I have to count vowels.
So what are vowels?
A e, i, o and you?
These are vowels.
Even these are also models.
Right.
So what I mean is if it is an uppercase or lowercase, so it could be in any case.
So we have to check whether it's a vowel in lowercase as well as uppercase.
You have to consider both.
So while scanning a string, you should check for both of these.
Now, if it is not a vowel, then there are two possibilities in this example string that it is a consonant,
right?
It's a consonant.
Or it may be a space.
It may be a space.
This is a blank space.
So if it is a blank space, then it means there is a new word starting now.
Again, blank space.
So only a word is a starting.
So in this thing there are total three words and there are two spaces.
So two spaces are there means there are three words.
So this is the idea we have now, right now for our example, string.
So if there is a space, then there is a new work.
So you have to count the number of words means you have to count the number of spaces.
If you've got two spaces, then there are three words.
So for this example, string, how to find out this vowels and consonants and words.
So I'll give the idea here.
You have to scan through the string from left to right by checking each and every character.
We have already done that.
How to scan a string.
We know it very well now while scanning what you should do check for wobble.
If it is a wobble, then count it or add one good.
And if there are spaces, if it is a space, then count one to it.
Right?
So counter space plus one.
Otherwise, just you can count it as a consonant.
Right.
Are you concerned?
We don't have any special characters or extra spaces.
Now, let us talk about checking of this one.
So for checking a bubble, you have to check whether a letter is any of these.
So you have to write a very lengthy condition where the letter is Capital A or E or I or O.
So you have to check it for all four uppercase as well as lowercase.
Then for space, just you have to give a space in between single course.
This is very easy.
Otherwise it's a consonant.
So you can write on the program.
Now, I have given you the idea.
So write a program by yourself.
So pause the video and try it.
If you want help, you can continue the video.
You will find the solution.
I will read on the program and show you after giving the solution for this one, I'll give you one more
problem that you have to do it by yourself.
So watch this video till end.
Now here is a string.
I have taken the same string.
Now I have to count wobbles, so and consonants.
So I will declare some variable.
What else?
That is initialize to zero and consonant is also initialized to zero and space or OC I will call it
as space.
And this is also initialized to zero.
Now I have to scan through this string and check for those letters.
So for this I will say digit is zero and str of I is not equal to null character and I plus plus.
No.
I have to check whether survival or not.
So if star of I is equal to capital A then or.
I have to check for another thing.
For every letter.
I should do this.
So what I do now is, instead of typing this entire thing, I'll copy this and I will list it just for
E!
I owe you the lowercase a e I owe you.
Right.
So I'll just change the letters.
This is Capital E.
Kept an eye.
Capital.
Oh.
And capital.
You then hear lowercase a lowercase e.
Lowercase I.
Lowercase o and lowercase.
You.
Now, if this are the case, then I will say.
Plus.
That's it.
Then else.
If this is not the case, if it's not a waffle, then I said I have to check only for the space so as
to verify.
Already I have copied it so I will just simply paste it here.
I have to check for a space.
So.
This should be a space in between single course, right?
So space.
Plus.
Else.
I'm assuming that it's a consonant.
Consonant.
Plus, plus.
Let's hope so.
I'm counting vowels and spaces and consonants.
So now here I will print.
What else are?
So how many of us are there?
Whatever we get in this one.
Right.
So now I'll just copy this.
And paste tier two times.
Novels.
Then words.
So then.
Consonants.
So how many consonants are there?
So I'll type here.
Consonants, then words.
So here I will say space plus one.
Otherwise.
If you don't want to write one here, then you should start from here.
Right here.
You should start space from one onwards.
But initially we don't have any spaces, so it's better to start with zero.
And here you have to show plus one for number of words.
So let us first of all, count how many vowels are there?
One, two and three vocals are there.
So how many consonants?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, nine.
Consonants are there.
And there are three words.
Three warbles nine consonants and three words.
Yes, you got a perfect answer for this one.
So this was a solution for counting words and vowels and consonants.
Now next challenge that you are supposed to do it, you solve it by yourself.
So I'll just remove this.
Okay.
I'll push it down.
And here, I'll show you a new string.
See if I have more spaces than how to handle this.
So you have to find out a solution for this one.
So it's a challenge for you.
You can write the program by yourself if there are multiple spaces.
See this logic?
The one we have written here.
If there are multiple space, then every space it will count and I have given for extra spaces.
So right now the answer was three.
So it will say plus four total seven words, but it's having actually three words.
So if there are multiple words, then what you will do?
So there are multiple spaces.
Then what you'll do.
So find out the solution.
Now, next thing in this challenge is suppose here I have a number seven.
See, this is not a consonant.
It's a number.
So what?
Our program that we have written just now, it will simply count it as consonant.
So it will take seven also as consonant.
So you have to make sure that it's a uppercase consonant or it may be a lowercase consonant and you
should count it as lower or uppercase consonant.
Right.
So if it is other than consonant, you should not count it.
So these are the two conditions I have introduced.
That is, if there are multiple spaces, then if there are any other special characters like words,
hyphen seven, if hyphen, you should not count it as consonant.
So you have to handle these two conditions and complete a challenge by yourself.
That all practice these programs.